Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
I guess I'm interested in the different periods the press is going through.
I don't know much about what it was like in its earliest years.
I know something.
And I don't know anything really about now except for the astonishing number of books that keep appearing.
Well, it's amazing all the successful things they've done, too, which is the art
blind, the annals of communism.
And then every once in a while you do see the Yale younger poetry, which I think is wonderful, and I've had a nice interview with John Hollander.
And that's kind of a thing where you're really fulfilling an obligation, I think, to American culture.
I don't think it's stretching it to say that.
Those may be books, of which we publish fewer than a thousand, some of them.
But you talk to people like Helen Bendler, for instance, at Harvard Lake, for my new book.
And she just believes that the old series is just so essential to the continued production of American poetry.
It's that relevant.
Oh, I'm glad to hear that.
And because it is a very serious project.
And the fact that one person, it's not being done by a committee.
It's really...
I kind of like that, because how much art is done by committee when you think about it?
That's right.
Very little.
Well, the press has always taken that seriously, and I don't think there was ever any thought that we couldn't afford it or there was too much trouble or anything.
It's always been considered an important part of it.
Well, it's something that you have to do.
Yeah.
And the editor who has handled it, and there have been several, always enjoyed it.
It's one of the many things.
I think there has, as I said, always been a spirit in this press of doing the best we can do with the resources we have for the world of scholarship.
I think it's somewhat different now.
I don't think editors handle special fields anymore.
I don't know.
More generalists.
I think they are.
I don't know.
since it's been 17 years, since I sat in this... Is this right?
We're in your... This very spot.
No kidding.
How many times?
I didn't think I'd ever look out that window again.
Well, there you go.
That building was... When's the last time you were here?
That wing was not... Well, I don't think I sat here for 17 years, so... Well, that's exciting.
I'm already... You're in the right office.
I'm pleased to... Well, you'll think of it.
jacket with the clams.
Isn't that great for the encyclopedia?
Yes.
I was talking to Nancy yesterday.
I mean, they went through about 20 iterations of that.
Really?
Before coming up with the clams.
I love it, because there's no cliche aspect to it, and yet it still resonates as New England.
And that's in there, the encyclopedia of New England, the West, New York, Ireland, the Holocaust.
Yes, we always want, Chester wanted to do more encyclopedias, and they were hard to
I know Ed Tripp.
Was the Encyclopedia of North New York City one that he... Oh, yeah, that's it.
I think that is one that he handled.
Edited by Kenneth T. Jackson.
Oh, yes.
But that, of course.
But Chester always wanted good backlist books.
Might not sell a lot in any year, but would keep selling year after year.
So that's a good question for me, the importance of the backlist.
Oh, well, we paid a lot of attention to that, and if we had a book that might become a backlist book, well, that was always of interest to the director.
Or if it looked as though it might be a backlist book, and we didn't think it would be a backlist book, that was also... Well, was that always in the front of your deliberations?
Oh, no.
Not in the front, but it was there.
Is this book going to stick around for a while?
And then once we started publishing paper bounds, is it a potential paper bound?
Because that's another form of backlist.
It sure is.
So we kept putting more and more books into paper bound form, and I guess I think they've done well.
Does it surprise you that arguably, I say arguably because I haven't seen the figures, but if not the number one best-selling book
The number two is a work of fiction.
Long Day's Journey Into Night.
Oh, yes.
Is the number one still... Well, according to John, it was... It used to be...
The Lonely Crowd?
It's still number one?
Well, it's been going since... I had never heard of this book until I started this project.
I had read it before I came to the press, but I had no idea it was the ill press.
What explains a phenomenon like that?
I don't know.
It was written.
It just happened to appeal to people as an analysis of our society.
And that is a wonderful title.
Isn't it wonderful?
It's kind of an oxymoron when you think about it.
Yes, wonderful.
So I'm interested.
That's still selling, I guess.
Apparently it's still the number one.
And I'd never heard of it until it was not only identified to me as the number one, but I said, you're kidding.
Tell me about this book.
In the university world, many, many, many, many people have heard of it.
Oh, sure.
Oh, and I'll know everything I need to know about it by the time I read it.
You may even read it.
I may have to, you know.
Interesting book.
What else do you think I need before we conclude?
Who else have you talked to who's been retired for these many years?
Well, really, Ed Morgan I talked to, and John, of course.
But in terms of retirees, it's just the three of you so far.
Retired Press?
Yeah.
Who are the other two?
No, no.
You're the first Retired Press, actually.
Well, there are other people around now.
I don't know what kind of thing you want to... You know, I think what I want to do is do these 20 interviews, and I just establish that number for myself.